Mr. Nguyen Van Van's question
concerns the
cremation of a deceased family member. This is an
environmentally friendly solution that saves land in the locality and is
increasingly supported and implemented by all levels of society in our commune.
However, recently, some people,
without knowing where the reason comes from, claim that
the spirit of the cremated person has returned
and possessed their relatives, saying that the body feels
very hot. I would like to ask the headmistress whether
this view is correct or incorrect, and if there is any way to
decipher this spiritual phenomenon.
Respectfully, from
the perspective of Buddhism and the insightful
understanding of the mind (because the mind
has some
spiritual understanding), after
death, the
person becomes another being.
They have a different body and are no longer
connected to their physical body.
However, they cling to this body as their own because
they are not enlightened.
That is, they cling to the idea that this body belongs to them.
Therefore, they report that this body feels
hot and burning, and that those buried
beneath feel hot.  Regarding the feeling of
coldness, it means that those who are buried
often report feeling cold, while those who are
cremated often report feeling hot. However,
whether they feel hot or cold is also due to
their karma, not because of their physical body or
bones.
There are also spirits that are
buried but don't report anything, and those who are cremated
don't report anything either. So
where does this phenomenon come from? It's due to their karma
from their lives; they
performed bad deeds,
so when they die and fall into the realm of
ghosts, even if they aren't buried or
cremated, they still
feel hot. There's no need for us to
cremate them.
Some people feel hot even after being buried, and
some
feel cold even after being cremated. This is due to their own karma,
not related to the
burial or cremation. It's not
related, but it's simply a
coincidence.
Their karma caused them to feel hot, and since we cremated them,
they think they felt hot because they were cremated.
Do you understand this point?
That's karma; it's just a
coincidence. If they had good karma,
cremating them 100 or 1000 times wouldn't
affect them. That's why,
in Buddhism, when
someone dies, the family usually
performs rituals, chanting sutras, repenting, doing good deeds, giving alms, releasing animals, and
offering to the
Three Jewels, dedicating the merit to them.
They will then increase their merit and become what
are called deities, whether small or large, depending on the amount of merit they accumulated during their lifetime. If they enter the realm of spirits, they enter the realm of ghosts, the realm of hungry ghosts, the realm of
suffering ghosts, the realm of
diseased ghosts, the realm of
flesh-eating ghosts, the realm of urine-eating ghosts—there are many, many
ghosts. As we read in the Ksitigarbha Sutra, there are so many ghosts.
After a person dies and is reborn into the realm of
spirits and ghosts, they appear in
many forms and
suffer so much.  Therefore,
saying that going to the toilet causes burning sensations is
completely wrong because this body is
no longer connected to the
person; they have
another body. If they were still
this body, they
would bring the whole body with them when they go home to eat. When a
person dies, that body is just like the
person clinging to it as their house, but in
reality, the person is just like
their own being entering the house. It's just that they cling to it, so
they keep
going back and forth there. That is, they
cling to it as their house,
their place, and sometimes they cling to it
as their body. But when
we enlighten them, they suddenly realize, "Oh, right! That's
not
my body, I was just
mistaken." The important thing is how we
explain it to them. It's like
someone with delusions; they just keep blinking.
Then, when we explain it to them,
they just say, "Uh, it's not my body."  It's
like a sick person who says, "I am a
grain of rice, I am a grain of rice." Every time they see
a chicken, they think they are a grain of rice
and are afraid the chicken will eat them, so they run away, terrified.
Because they keep mistaking themselves for a grain of rice, they run
away whenever they see a chicken because they think a
chicken eats rice.
People ask, "You're not rice,
you're a person," and they say, "Oh, I'm a person,
not rice." But because of this attachment, they
run out, see a chicken, and say, "Oh, I'm rice!" and
run away, thinking, "The chicken will eat the
rice!" It's simply an
attachment, a misunderstanding.
That's why in Buddhism, all
followers of Buddha must learn this beforehand
so that when we die, we won't be like
that, not attached to the color of the grave. That is,
Buddhist disciples must learn this: after
death, they will be reborn, and in rebirth, they will have
a new body, a
new life, no longer dependent on the old body,
no longer dependent on the old family.
So let's strive to actively
change our behavior.  And we will have a
new body. Studying Buddhism requires enlightenment
from the beginning, so that when we die, we wo
n't be attached to our graves. That's something a
Buddhist disciple must learn because when
we are attached to graves, it causes great suffering for our
descendants. That is, if our grave is even
slightly disturbed, we will
inform our descendants that the spirit has come to
report, not that it's the grave itself. But when it
comes, it also affects our descendants, causing
them great suffering. For example, they are
attached to the deceased body as
their own. So if their head is tilted in one direction,
they immediately cause their descendants headaches. When doctors
can't find the illness, they go to the grave and everything is cured. Is that right?
No, it is. Yes, that's
why there are grave attachments.
In Buddhism, there are
grave-visiting rituals, but within those rituals, there is
enlightenment for the deceased so they understand. It's
all there; it's not about condoning the
spirit's attachment. If the
spirit becomes more and more attached, the
descendants will suffer more and more. Even the slightest thing...
Regarding reporting to descendants, it's important to acknowledge that they are also very
tired. Therefore, those who study Buddhism and attain enlightenment
understand this so that after
death, if they are reborn into the realm of the
deceased, they will become powerful
spirits and deities. They will only protect their
descendants and not bother
them by clinging to graves, burial places, or
corpses. So,
the question here is: the explanation for
this spiritual phenomenon is that while this person
was alive, they were not yet enlightened, and due to their karmic forces,
they thought that the
cremation caused them to feel hot, but that's
not it. It's
their karmic force that's causing them to feel hot. That's what
people call a sick ghost. A
ghost, but it's sick—either with
heat, numbness, hunger, or other illnesses.
Ghosts are not without sickness; they have
many illnesses. Therefore, when they are
sick, they can report it to
their family members, thinking that their family members
can help them. But
their family members don't understand that when their family members are
sick...  We go to treat illnesses, but we
don't know how to help them. Because we
don't help them, if we have
karmic connections, they will just report it to us.
So there are people
who might have a certain illness, and some
families perform rituals and they get cured,
right? Yes, that's true.
So we can't deny the truth.
In Buddhism, we know
how to perform rituals ourselves, and we get
cured. In Buddhism, that's called giving alms, giving
food to the deceased,
giving blessings. That's
all, we
get blessings, and we get
good things. So here, if
we all die, we should cremate them completely, without
attachment. It's not because of that, it's hot.
So we have to understand this issue. And
sometimes it can also be because of the
people who perform the rituals, the people the monks
call them. They might
know that someone died because of cremation, and
they might exaggerate. So we
must follow the Buddha's teachings. If we want to
benefit the deceased, what should the family
do?  Chapter seven of the Ksitigarbha
Sutra clearly teaches that family members should perform meritorious
deeds such as releasing animals, making offerings to the
Three Jewels, and dedicating the merit to the deceased. This will increase the deceased's blessings, bring peace and joy, and bring good fortune and happiness to the family.
This is the Buddha's teaching, and
all Buddhists have practiced this.
Many people practice it. Therefore, doing good
for the deceased is beneficial. Chapter seven of the
Ksitigarbha Sutra benefits both the living and the deceased.
You can refer to this. The
Buddha clearly taught
what family members should do after death so that the whole family
receives blessings and the deceased is
liberated. So, don't cling to
the color of the grave
anymore. [music] I
[music]